---
layout: post
title:  "Blog sections"
date:   2013-10-20 01:01:01
categories: short blogging methodology
---

I really love some blogs, especially those that get updated rarely. For
instance, [JLOUIS Ramblings](http://jlouisramblings.blogspot.com/) blog is outright awesome.

However some of the blogs that see frequent updates are also very interesting. A
good example of such a blog can be [eax.me](http://eax.me) (in Russian).

While we can read the blog of Mr. Andersen as a book (in fact, during one of my
thirty-hour rides from Rīga to Zagreb I was doing that).

On the other hand, if one posts frequently, he or she should really provide a sane
way of navigation trough the posts. The approaches vary with the most common
being excessive usage of tags. With tags you can have several "dimensions" of
tagging — topic, length, interestingness, etc.

However I really like the concept of having sections in one's blog (if one posts
frequently). An example of this approach — again — is [eax.me](http://eax.me).
Mr. Alexander Alexeev has the following sections —

 + Sections
  + Small notes (mostly HOWTOS)
  + Monthly findings (interesting things found in the Internet)
 + Implicit sections
  + Haskell and Template Haskell
  + Evaluating technology/methodology X
  + General notes on functional programming
  + Non-FP-related posts

I would totally steal the “small notes” and “monthly findings” sections, as I
keep track of those in a google doc anyway (that I access trough GoogleCL... candidate
for a small note?). I would also make a “progress” section where I'd post
summaries of proceedings in some of non-work related projects I have. Another
kind of articles I would like to post can be generalized as “random thoughts”.
Tpoics such as education (G-d, I want to write a blog post about cascading
education for such a long time, I'd better not forget that), society,
technology.

We'll see where it gets, but I'm full of enthusiasm.

Besides, I still need to tweak so much things related to my Jekyll installation —  

 + Display tags
 + Make /tag/ controller that will filter posts by tag
 + Implement commentary server
 + Serve blog using NGIИX

Ah, life is good.
